Title: City of Men
Date: 2016-03-31 5:00
Modified: 2016-03-31 5:00
Status: published
Category: Foreign
Tags: Brazil, Crime, Drama
Slug: city-of-men
Authors: Ben Burnett
Summary: Life, drama and crime in the streets of Rio de Janeiro.

[City of Men](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0870090/) (7.3 IMDb)&mdash;a
sort-of-like-a-follow-up to [City of
God](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0317248/) (8.7 IMDb)&mdash;follows
the lives of two friends, Acerola and Laranjinha, in the streets of
Rio de Janeiro.

The show opens with one of the main characters running in place as a
sequence of hand drawn buildings coast by. The credits are work that
only a fledgling film student could be proud of. But don't let it turn
you off; the opening credits do not reflect the production of the rest
of the program.

The show itself is fast-paced and features a fast-spoken jumble of
Portuguese. The speed at which the lines are delivered can make it
difficult to follow the dialog; but, despite this, it is worth hanging
in there. The show offers compelling characters and it is packed full
of talented actors.

We join the duo, Acerola and Laranjinha, on the morning of a school
day, in a lecture on Napoleonic history. The class is a pandemonious
mess of noise, unanswered questions and an instructor determined to
cruises through the day's material. The tumultuous nature of the
class, it seems, is intended to mirror the chaos of an ongoing war
between local gangs that injects itself later in the episode.

In class, a field trip to the [Imperial Museum of
Brazil](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Imperial_Museum_of_Brazil) is
scheduled for the next day. During the trip, students are to see the
[Diamantine
Crown](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Imperial_Crown_of_Brazil), a
precious left-over of the monarchy that once ruled Brazil. Not keen on
being left out, the boys rush off to hustle their passage on the
excursion.

The camera is not shy of darting around as the characters scurry in
the streets, busily going about their work. It closely follows our
protagonists as they make their way to their first marks. A
grandmother and&mdash;what we can only assume to be a lover to one of
the character's mothers&mdash;take the bait, and provide the boys with
requisite liquidity for the next day's tour.

After one of the boys is robbed on the morning of the trip, the other
offers to help: they put together a scheme to ask one of the drug
lords for money. The rub: the plan involves blaming the lord's rival
for the robbery&mdash;from which a shoot-out with a gruesome and
tragic end is spawned.

Acerola and Laranjinha face a neighborhood&mdash;and a city&mdash;torn
by hate, crime, and lives lived on the fringe of civility. Theirs is a
life that only a scant few of us can related to. A view through this
lens provides a small glimpse in to a foreign world, with both it's
beauty and harshness exposed... That said, it's well worth taking a
look.
